=== notes avamar : ===

= cmds : 

status.dpn - provides status of Avamar grid

dpnctl status - check status of list of Avamar services

dpnctl stop - stop all Avamar services

dpnctl start - start all Avamar services

avmaint sessions |grep sessionid - List backup sessions and session id's running on Avamar grid

avmaint kill sessionid - Kill active backup on Avamar

avmaint checkpoint --ava - Take checkpoint on Avamar

avmaint hfscheck --rolling --ava - Start hfscheck on Avamar

avmaint garbagecollect --maxtime=time --ava - Start GC on Avamar time = enter time in second

dpnctl start maint - Start Maintenance Schedule on Avamar

dpnctl stop maint - Stop Maintenance Schedule on Avamar

dpnctl start sched - Start Backup scheduler on Avamar

dpnctl stop sched - Stop Backup scheduler on Avamar

watch avmaint hfscheckstatus - Monitor hfscheck process on Avamar

watch avmaint gcstatus - Monitor GC process on Avamar


= notes to safely shutdown avamar :

Instructions To Safely Shut Down and Restart An Avamar Grid During Maintenance

Environment:
Avamar Server 7.x
Avamar Server 6.x
Avamar Server 5.x
All Hardware Generations
 
Description:
This article describes the procedure to follow when An Avamar system needs to be temporarily powered down.
Cause:
The Avamar system will be relocated or some other maintenance activity will occur in the local data center which requires the Avamar system to be physically powered down.
 
Resolution:

1. Use the Avamar Administrator to stop any backups which are in progress.
 
Open Avamar Administrator > Activity screen
Look for any ‘Running’ backups.
Right-click and choose ‘Cancel Activity’.
 
2. Ensure the system has a recent checkpoint
Note: It is important to take a checkpoint before shutting down the Avamar software. This will create a point in which to rollback in case the shutdown does not execute normally.
 
This can be done through the GUI or via the command line (see below)
 
Check the Avamar Administrator > Server screen > Checkpoint Management tab
 
Pay careful attention to ensure that the system has a recent, validated checkpoint.  If a recent checkpoint does not exist, create one by selecting 'Actions > Create checkpoint'
If the checkpoint operation fails, do not proceed with the shut-down. Contact Avamar support for guidance.
 
3. Halt the Avamar services:
Log in to the Avamar Utility node as the 'admin' user
Load the SSH keys as described in KB 95614.
Run 'status.dpn' and verify that there are no maintenance jobs running using status.dpn
All should say (OK) at the end of the line.

  e. If not already done, take a checkpoint
mccli checkpoint create --override_maintenance_scheduler
  f. Shut down all Avamar services. Use the dpnctl command. Note: Answer ‘yes’ to the EMS question.
dpnctl stop
  g. Once the Avamar services are stopped, confirm the status with the dpnctl status command.
dpnctl status
dpnctl: INFO: gsan status: down
dpnctl: INFO: MCS status: down.
dpnctl: INFO: EMS status: down.
dpnctl: INFO: Backup scheduler status: down.
dpnctl: INFO: dtlt status: down.
dpnctl: INFO: Maintenance windows scheduler status: suspended.
dpnctl: INFO: Maintenance cron jobs status: suspended.
  h. Prepare the nodes for shutdown
mapall --user=root --all 'touch /fastboot'
mapall --user=root --all 'halt'
  i. Power down all nodes in the grid.
If this is Avamar and Data Domain Integrated system please follow KB 181180 to shut down the Data Domain system.
Note: If not maintenance or work is being performed on the Data Domain server it is not necessary to complete this step.
4. To bring an Avamar system back online:
Power on all the nodes. Allow time for the operating system to start.
Start the Avamar services. Use the command dpnctl start. Answer ‘yes’ for the support question.
dpnctl start
  c. If the system reports that gsan did not come down cleanly, select the option to rollback to the last checkpoint.
Reference:
EMC Support Solution Number: 115629

